[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> What we experience through
our mind and senses are all
part of our reality--
what we hear, what we
see, what we touch.
But what if life
as we think of it
is only part of a
much greater story?
Throughout history,
many scholars
have postulated an
assortment of theories
to explain the fundamental
nature of reality.
One of these theories
suggests the universe
is like a hologram.
They believe that our 3D reality
is more like a projection
from a flat
two-dimensional field that
exists on a thin surface at
the edge of the universe.
As extraordinary
as this seems, it's
a theory that
initially emerged years
ago from scientists
studying black holes.
If this is the case and
the universe is a hologram,
then it begs the
question, what are we?
Are we existing as
light projections
within the hologram?
And how might that impact
our perception of reality?
>> Holographic reality--
the physical that isn't.
And how we can appear
to be experiencing
a world of solidity when
it's nothing of the kind.
>> It's similar to video games.
When you're moving in three
dimensions in a video game,
what you're really
doing is just changing
two-dimensional pixels,
and changing the colors,
and making it seem like you're
moving in different dimensions.
When you look at these
scenarios, like the black hole,
you start realizing
that, OK, maybe this
might just be a giant
hologram of some sort.
>> We are living in a reality
where the base form is
waveform, waveform
information like Wi-Fi.
And the five senses pick up
that waveform information.
They turn it into
electrical information.
They communicate
it to the brain.
And then the brain decodes
it into digital holographic
information.
It's the same information, but
in a different decoded form.
Just as the information
in a Wi-Fi field
looks very different,
even though it's
the same information,
when it's decoded
onto the screen of the computer.
>> According to Professor Kostas
Skenderis at the University
of Southampton, the idea is
similar to that of ordinary
holograms where a 3D image is
encoded in a two-dimensional
surface, such as in the
hologram on a credit card.
However, this time, the
entire universe is encoded.
>> So the idea of the
holographic universe is
a similar idea where there is a
higher reality that is the true
reality.
And it is the source
of this reality.
And then that higher
reality has encoded
a substrate of some kind
with this information.
And then there's a
coherent source of energy
that flows through that.
And then that
information projects
into this physical universe.
So with the
holographic universe,
it's saying that the
most fundamental thing
in this universe is information.
And then that
information informs
how the universe is formed,
whether it's in form of energy,
forces, particles, and so
forth, through even us.
>> And some of the more
recent developments,
certainly in my theories with
the holographic mass solution,
where we see that the universe
very much acts like a hologram
in terms that it seems that
all the information is present
in every point.
So for instance, in
the theory I'm writing,
we were able to figure
out, for instance,
the correct temperature
for the background
radiation of the universe, the
correct size of the universe,
the correct mass
for the universe,
the correct values for many
of the fundamental constants
of the universe just
by studying one proton.
In the dynamics of that one
proton is all the information
necessary to understand
the whole universe,
which is very much a
holographic principle.
And so there is
a lot of evidence
that's emerging supporting
a holographic view
of the mechanics
of our universe.
>> Physicist Leonard Susskind,
one of the originators
of the holographic principle,
has stated that a hologram
takes three dimensions of
information and stores it
on a 2D surface.
In the same way,
even though objects
are physically consumed by black
holes, all of their information
remains imprinted on the
event horizon as a hologram.
>> The information
that creates us,
creates a physical universe,
comes from the very edge
of our own physical universe.
But in the same way that
we look at a hologram
and we can perceive some
kind of 3D perspective to it,
that's exactly what
is going on down here.
So everything that we see,
everything that we feel
is simply a projection.
>> It's like a sea of
information or a sea of energy.
And waves on that
ocean, they intersect.
And that forms the
information patterns
that, then, project
into the universe.
>> When the wave is the ocean
and the ocean is the wave,
when the universe is within the
proton and the proton is within
the universe, understanding this
fundamental perspective is key.
The implication here
is that the universe
is the flow of information
where each point of information
contains the whole of creation.
>> It's as if all the
information is in every point,
then all scales are related.
And so the scalar relationship
from, for instance,
all the way from the
Planck scale all the way
to the universal scale going
with protons, electrons,
planets, stars, galaxies,
superclusters, and so on,
all these scales are
like fractal division
of this holographic
structure of space.
And so this fractal
division of the space
that produces all of the scales
in the holographic structure
means that every scale is then
embedded in every other scale.
So from every scale,
you have access
to the network of information
of all the other scales.
And all of a sudden, you can
see the universe and creation
as a whole as
information transfer
across scales, from infinitely
big to infinitely small,
like a flow of
information in which we
are at one of the scales, at
the center between the Planck
in our universe.
And so we are part of
this information flow.
The event of self-awareness,
and consciousness, and so on,
being part of that flow.
And that means that from
being part of that hologram,
from being part of this
fractal, holographic structure,
you have access to all the
information, information
that's non-local to you.
That means information that's
not necessarily directly
in your environment, but maybe
information about something
very far away from
you because everything
is entangled into this
holographic nature
of our universe.
>> This suggests that the
information comprising what we
perceive as 3D reality is
stored on a 2D surface,
including time.
This means,
essentially, everything
we see and experience
that appears as real
may, in fact, be an illusion.
>> So this reality is a
holographic dream, in effect.
But it seems so real.
When so many of our
dreams don't seem real.
We know they're dreams.
We wake up.
We say I've had a dream.
But this one seems
incredibly real,
because of the
power of the mind.
I mean, I don't know
about your dreams.
I dream often in three
dimensions, if you like.
I experience in my dreams what
appears to be the world that I
experience here.
But how can that be?
Because we accept that dreams
are actually going on here.
So it can't be physical, can it?
We're having
multiple experiences
at the same time over multiple
dimensions at the same time.
But the one we are actually
aware of that seems real
is this one.
As the brain decodes this
waveform information into what
appears to be this solid world.
>> We share our existence with
other holographic universes,
if you like, that
coexist with us.
And they can be seen
as a part of what might
be seen as the multiverse.
The multiverse itself
would be the source.
That would be the projectionist.
In other words, that
which is creating
all of this in the first place.
But then what is the
projector itself?
The projector is,
essentially, what
we would call the ether,
the actual structure
of the multiverse through
which information is carried.
We are living in a multifaceted
series of dimensions
or universes that all
overlay each other,
and are all accessible,
and that are bound together
by some kind of
primordial source.
And that primordial source is
what I call the mind of God.
Note that I said
the mind of God.
I didn't say God himself.
This is all thought, all
consciousness bound together
through the process of
quantum entanglement.
Quantum entanglement is the
idea that every particle
that's created has a twin.
And no matter how far
away those twins get,
they are still entangled.
They are still linked
instantaneously.
So in other words,
if you tweak one,
it doesn't matter how far
away the other one gets,
it will respond in an
equal and opposite manner
instantaneously.
>> As a layperson trying to
understand consciousness,
which I think is what
we're talking about here,
I believe we are all
part of a consciousness.
Some would call the
source, whether you
want to label that with
bigger names or whatever.
I call it the source,
universal awareness,
lots of different names.
>> One time, I believe it was
Wolfgang Pauli or Schrodinger,
one of those fathers of
modern quantum physics.
And they asked how many minds
are there in the universe?
And the answer was one.
There's only one mind.
And so we may
experience ourselves
as having these
individual minds.
Like my mind is mine.
But in reality,
we are tuning in.
Our brain is like a receiver,
like a radio receiver,
for this field of
consciousness and mind
that we are all bathing in.
We're like fish in the sea.
So similar to the
fish maybe not knowing
that there's water
around it, we are
in the sea of consciousness.
And we may not know that there's
consciousness all around us,
and we're just tuning in to
these different frequencies
or stations of
consciousness based on how
we have tuned our frequency.
And it's by our will
and our intention
that we shift our dial to
tune in to different levels
of consciousness.
>> If the universe is a
hologram, that means we are,
too.
This may mean that
each one of us
contains the entire
universe within ourselves.
>> If you take the holographic
print, that waveform print,
and you cut it into four
and fire the laser at each
of the four pieces, you will not
get a quarter of the picture.
You will get a quarter-sized
version of the whole picture.
So every part of the hologram
contains the information
of the whole hologram.
>> What does this actually mean?
What it means is
that our reality
is the product of a
multi-dimensional emanation
coming from a primary source.
So almost like a singularity
that as it emanates out,
it's almost like it is broken
up, like light through a prism.
And that every single ray
that comes through that prism
could be seen as an
individual universe.
And that that thereafter
is broken up again,
and again, and again.
And all we, ultimately, are
is one part of that emanation.
>> Information is the main
fundamental building block
of this universe, at least
that's what science is saying
now with the holographic model.
That information is
most fundamental.
And then that information
informs what gets manifested
or what gets materialized
out of the quantum field.
So those particles
and energy, everything
that we experience here in
this sensory, physical world,
is real.
It's just informed
by information
that comes from a source
beyond this physicality.
>> If the universe
is holographic,
the question people often ask
is why does it appear solid?
>> Well there's a misconception
about what we call the material
world.
If you look really precisely
at what the material world is,
you don't actually
find a thing, right?
It's not a thing.
Like if you look at an atom,
if you look at a proton, what
are you seeing?
Well, first of all, you're
seeing 99.9999999% space.
The atom is mostly space.
So right there, you know
it's not that thing.
It's not a billiard ball.
It's actually a no thing.
It's mostly space.
And the boundary that we define,
that we see, that we touch,
that we bounce against
is a electrostatic field
that is basically a little
bit of oscillating energy.
And this electromagnetic
oscillating energy
bounce against each other.
And it feels like solid.
It's like solid space, right?
And when we look at the protons
in the nuclei of the atom,
we find the same thing.
All we can say about a proton is
that there is a region of space
where there's a little bit of
a denser electromagnetic field
or denser electrostatic field.
We call it the
particle and so on.
But basically all
we're describing
is little energy
advance in the space.
>> Based upon the research
and conclusions of American
scientists David Bohm and Karl
Pribram a universe in which
individual brains are
actually indivisible portions
of the greater hologram and
everything is holographically
interconnected, the
parapsychological phenomena,
such as telepathy, may
merely be the accessing
of the holographic level.
>> To put it another way, in
a universe that is a hologram,
our brain, indeed every neuron
and every atom in our brain,
contains, in some semblance,
the whole universe.
And we are truly all
part of a global mind.
>> I believe our brain is like
a physical modem for translating
our multidimensional awareness.
So it's giving us something
in a physical form for us
to be able to relate to and
have a physical experience.
But consciousness, whether you
call that mind, is nonphysical.
The way that I've come to
understand reality is this--
we have a physical container of
a certain frequency with mind.
I call the brain the modem
that allows us to translate it
into physical form so that we
can actually understand it.
So that's what the brain is.
But consciousness,
whether you call
that mind, is non-physical,
is an awareness
that is connected to
humanity's the matrix,
but also to humanity's
consciousness,
if you like as well.
And so what we're doing is
having an individual perception
through our human brain
of a human experience that
will be different for everyone
perceiving that same consensus
reality.
So that we have all
that unique experience,
but ultimately we're all coming
from the same place, which
is our consciousness, which
is connected to everything,
not just human beings,
but the star beings,
the interdimensionals,
and all creatures.
Just because we see it
as solid, doesn't mean it
isn't conscious.
It just means that we are not
aware of its consciousness.
>> The body is the mind.
The body is just a decoded,
holographic expression
of the mind.
Yes, even the body,
everything is holographic.
Therefore we are decoding
the energetic fields
that we call the body,
the information fields,
the waveform fields
into the very body
that we think we're inhabiting.
And our perceptions will dictate
the nature of how we do that
and how we experience that body.
>> I wouldn't say that the
holographic universe is
a product of mind.
I would say that the
dynamics of information
flow through the
structures of our universe,
or of the holographic,
fractal universe,
produce the effect
that we call mind
or that we call consciousness.
But that effect
is at every scale,
it's not isolated to the human.
Meaning that in order for the
human to become self-aware,
it had to have all the steps
of evolution along the way
to get to there.
So every bit of that is part of
the mind, of the consciousness,
of the evolution of the whole.
It's one thing
learning about itself.
And so you could say it
from that perspective
that consciousness and the
mind is present at all levels.
It's the result of this
evolutionary transformation
that's occurring every
billionth of a second everywhere
in the universe.
>> Bohm and Pribram have also
suggested that many religious
and mystical experiences, such
as a feeling of transcendental
oneness with the universe, may
also be due to the accessing
of the holographic realm.
As they note, perhaps the
reason so many great mystics
of the past have talked
about experiencing
a feeling of oneness
with all things
is simply that they
have learned how
to reach that part
of their minds
in which all things really
do possess cosmic unity.
>> The mechanism that
information is transferred
on a multidimensional
level throughout,
not just this universe,
but every universe.
And the information
that is being conveyed
is the same as what we
would call consciousness.
And that consciousness is the
product of human interaction
or the interaction of any life
form with a primordial source
of knowledge, of
wisdom, which I like
to refer to as the
mind of God, something
that is all information.
Every aspect of life
anywhere in the universe,
not just in our universe,
but every universe
is contributing to this.
And that this is the source.
And that the conveyance of this
information through the ether
allows the manifestation
of the physical reality.
>> As a layperson, I
just see it as frequency.
So for me, we're
in a 3D frequency,
which everything appears
solid, but, obviously, really,
everything isn't solid in terms
of what science is showing us.
It's all molecular.
You go to the very atom and
that there's nothing actually
solid at all.
So it's only because we are
perceiving it as solid simply
because we're the same frequency
as whatever it is around us.
That's why we can't see
spirits, or at least some of us
can't see spirits because
they're a different frequency.
And extraterrestrials are
a different frequency.
So as we expand in our
consciousness and awareness,
the more we can see those other
realities and frequencies.
>> The theory that reality as
we consciously experience it is
actually a hologram goes back
to many ancient cultures around
the world who believed that we
exist in a dream or illusion.
>> One of the best examples
of the ancients having
an understanding of what we
would call the holographic
universe is the Hebrew Kabbalah.
And this talks about the fact
that the physical universe
in which we live is
merely emanations
of a primordial divine
source before he entered
into the physical world.
There was like this
lightning bolt of activity
that penetrated through
into physical reality
and penetrated
through into humanity.
And that we all have some facet
of that original emanation
within us.
>> Many of them said they
got this from the sun gods,
wherever.
They knew that the
material world was actually
the result of a deeper reality.
And this deeper
reality is actually
a field of information that's
occurring at the quantum scale.
And so what we see in our
world is really the iceberg tip
of what reality is.
And those discovery
meet nicely with some
of these ancient knowledge about
the deeper meaning of reality.
>> Assuming that we're living
in a holographic reality,
what then are the
implications for humanity?
>> The implication of living in
a holographic universe would,
essentially, mean that
we are part of a larger,
higher dimensional object.
And it would be prudent
for us to figure out
what that object is.
Because in theory, if we
could get and understand
that object in its
entirety, we would
be able to know what
direction humanity is headed.
We would be able to see the
universe front and back.
We would essentially time
travel in many respects
if we could actually
see the entire,
let's say, four-dimensional
object that we're part of
or a higher dimensional object.
And so it would be
kind of like finding
the cheat codes to the matrix.
>> If we could understand that
we exist within a multiverse,
and that overlaid on our own
physical reality are multiple
other universes,
quite literally,
then an understanding of this
process could bring us closer
to the intelligences, and, thus,
the knowledge and wisdom that
might be held by
beings, consciousness,
intelligences as a whole
that exist within these other
realms.
So to try and find out the route
back to the original source
could, then, take us beyond
that into these other universes.
>> We are
multidimensional beings.
And we have so
much more potential
to direct the course
of things here.
So rather than being
in reaction to all
these outer
circumstances that we're
presented with in
our world, we can
shift into being more
realizing that we are at cause.
And through our consciousness
and through our remembering
of who we really are, and the
potential that's within us,
and the fact that we
are the source of this,
then that is when we can really
shift the course of things.
That is when we can
really start to put
in new codes and new
information into this hologram
and then manifest it here
in this physical reality.
>> The take away, if we believe
that this is a holographic
universe and we
are all part of it,
is not to take
life too seriously,
to enjoy the adventure, and to
realize that it's offering us
so much awareness
and understanding.
And that at the end
of the day, it's
far better to see your
reality in that way
than as a victim of it, because
it's quite exciting down here.
>> I believe that if there is
an intelligence behind this
holographic universe, it
would be, what I guess,
would be some sort of
like alien simulator.
It would have to be somebody
or something extremely
interested in
creating simulations
of this universe
for whatever reason.
So I would almost have to
venture that it's a scientist,
but maybe that's bias.
>> It really is a self
introspective of our being,
about who we are, of who
we are in relationship
to the universe, to reality.
How come we're here?
How come we're where?
How come we have self-awareness?
How did this happen?
What are the mechanisms
that made that happen?
And then we can
align our technology
to the same mechanism so
that we become harmonious.
It teaches us about
the fact that we
are all part of the
same source, and that we
should unify as human beings
and take care of each other,
and support each other,
and transform our society
to a society that's thriving
instead of a society that's
struggling in conflict trying
to have more of the resources
than others.
And this can lead, this
understanding these physics,
can lead to the unification
of the human race.
>> We are the
imagination of ourselves.
And it's that imagination
that manifests
in the way we decode information
into holographic reality
and, thus, the nature of
the physical experiences
that we have.
But the great news
is now that we
are in a time when
people are beginning,
like never before in my
experience, to question again,
not only what's really
behind world events but,
hey, what is this place?
Who am I?
What is going on?
And the answers will
transform this world.
And it will
transform human life.
>> In a universe where
individual minds are actually
fractals of the greater
hologram and everything is
interconnected, the holographic
universe theory may well be
the intersection of cosmic unity
where science and spirituality
merge as one.
In our next episode
of "Deep Space,"
think energy, frequency,
and the role of plasma
if you want to
understand the universe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]